Welcome back!
Good job! You've made it this far and you're probably asking yourself, "Andrei,
this has been really good really informative.
But where is the coding; I want to start building some Web sites."
And I know, I know we'll get there don't worry.
But without even realizing it you just learned some really really important fundamental skills, and something
that will take you, in the career of a web developer, very far because now you know how to improve website
performance without coding a single - a single line of code. Just so you know we're going to get a little
silly here.
We're actually going to make sure that you remember these fundamental skills every time throughout these
lessons that there's going to be chunks of very important lessons and to symbolize how important they
are.
I'm going to get Jean-Claude Van Damme's help.
So again this is an important lesson.
This is an important fundamental, web developer concept.
So Jean-Claude Van Damme, how important is it?
All right.
So as you can see a very important concept and what is it?
Well like I said without writing a single line of code you now know how to improve a Web site's performance
so let's think about this.
There's three things.
We send 'google.com', we talk to Google servers, and we get these files back. So just looking at this and
looking at what you've learned so far what's one thing that would make sure that this this process would
be fast.
Let's look at the first one I'm going to give you a second to think.
Hopefully you get it.
The first one is location of the server.
We saw how big the Internet backbone is.
So if the servers are really really close to you, let's say you're in the States and the servers are
just a couple of kilometers away that hop is going to be really really fast versus if it's all the way
across the globe.
So location of the server is important.
And we'll talk about these and how big companies use these to their advantage later on.
But so that makes sense.
Let's look at the next one.
So the next one is how many trips.
So hopefully, ideally we just have one trip to the Google servers and Google servers send us all the
files that we need back.
But as we know there's new pages there are searches so this communication with Google is back and forth,
back and forth.
And the less trips we have, the faster - the faster that we would be able to to get the files.
So how many trips. And then finally size of files again if this HTML file, CSS file, or Javascript
file is massive and it's you know 100 megabytes.
Well that's going to be a lot slower to transfer over the Internet than it is, if it was just a couple
of kilobytes.
So there it is.
These three things are something that you'll take with you and you'll realize that every time you're
building an application or web site you're going to be thinking about these things and these are going
to help you make sure that you have a performant, fast web site and we're going to take these with us
as we go on throughout the course. Talk to you soon.